## Tutorial 3

### Admin
We will start by covering any of the course administrative details
* Finalise format for A1 presentation; student numbers & time expectations 
  * randomised student list to present; remainder will be on the A2 list
  * 17 students total :: 12 presentations x 5 minutes each
    * Each presentation: pick one question, have some visuals ready/slides/screenshare of your solution. Be prepared to answer a question or two. You can show diagrams, code, output, history, implications, etc. If slides, try to limit numbers. We don't need to see any titleslides/references.   
  * remaining students will be first in the queue for A2 tutorial presentation
* All students allocated to group lists on Canvas

### Assignment 1 Questions (Due next Friday @noon)
* format; pdf submission on Canvas. Please don't submit a zip file of all your project files!
  * Q1:
    * Introduction - what are you doing?
    * Show a code block of key elements (use monospaced font for code)
    * Have a link to your project
    * Answer questions sequentially. In the document. No more than 1/2 page per question (*rough guideline*).
   * Q2: etcetera
* referencing, required, not in-text/ inline citations. You can put them at the end.
* title page not needed, but please include name
* AI use - at the end of the assignment put a statement about what/if you used AI.

### Tasks
These questions are from Notebook LMs Study Guide (link below). Note not all of the questions pertain to topics we have covered thus far.
1. What is a UTXO, and how does it relate to a user's Bitcoin balance? What's an alternative ledger model?
2. What is the "mempool," and what happens to a transaction when it enters it? Where is the mempool located? Who has control over the mempool?
3. Differentiate between a "full node" and a "light node" in a blockchain network. Why would we want to have this distinction?


### Resources
* New Experiment - Trying out NotebookLM [public link here (you need a Google account)](https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/4c268a0a-ab19-41e7-9b46-2f562aad1f23)
* Notebook LM's [podcast link](https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/4c268a0a-ab19-41e7-9b46-2f562aad1f23/audio)
* Notebook LM limits its knowledge to only the sources its provided. In this manner it won't pull from strange, possibly informal or inaccurate websites that it was trained on. It should only provide an interface for you to interact with the week's materials. Please let Jeff know if you have feedback on this tool and its use in this class.

### Miscelaneous
* 🤷‍♂️

---
⬅️ [back](/../../)
